A firewall is a security device that limits traffic to and from a network. 
It can be hardware or software-based.
Software firewalls range from Windows Defender Firewall to UFW or iptables in 
    Linux or more advanced software firewalls like PfSense.
In industry, firewalls are usually standalone appliances that sit in the rack, 
    but the network in your home most likely has a firewall built into your router.
This is an essential security device that every network should have.

The Modern SOHO Router
    Is a small device that provides Internet access to your home or small business.
    It does include:
        Router: Connects your home network to the Internet.
        Switch: Allows you to connect multiple devices.
        Firewall: Filters traffic into and out of the network.
        DHCP Server: Hands out and keeps track of IP addresses inside your network.
        Wireless Access Point (WAP): Provides a wireless connection to phones, tablets, laptops, etc.

        Traffic Analytics: Software to visualize traffic on your network.
        VPN (Virtual Private Network) Server: An endpoint that allows you to create an encrypted 
            connection into your network from anywhere.
        POE (Power Over Ethernet): Sends power over the cable that provides a network connection. 
            Useful for devices such as extra Wireless Access Points, Voice over IP (VOIP) phones, or IP cameras.


Stateless Firewalls
    All firewalls, software, or hardware falls into a couple of categories, stateful or stateless. 
    This refers to the way the firewall sifts through traffic. In a pure, stateless firewall, every packet is inspected. 
    Certain IPs, ports, and/or protocols are forbidden. If the packet matches those criteria, it is rejected or dropped. 
    
    Imagine that we have a simple stateless firewall setup to protect a web server. The firewall has three inbound rules. 
        An inbound rule affects only traffic coming into the network. There are no outbound rules:
            1.Allow traffic through port 80 (normally unencrypted web browsing traffic).
            2.Reject traffic that uses FTP protocol (file transfers).
            3.Drop ICMP traffic (ping requests).

        Allow
            In this first scenario, the client is sending HTTP traffic to the server. 
            It matches the first rule and is allowed through the firewall.
        Reject
            In this second scenario, the client is sending FTP traffic to the server. 
            Rule 2 says to reject that traffic and so the firewall sends an error message 
            back to the client saying that this type of traffic is NOT allowed.
        Drop
            In the third scenario, the client is trying to ping the server. 
            Rule 3 says to drop all ICMP traffic. The packet is not forwarded to the server. 
            No error message is sent out. To the client, it looks as if the traffic was sent into a black hole.
        outbound Traffic
            In this last scenario, the server sends a ping request out to the internet. 
            There are no rules governing outbound traffic and therefore it is allowed.

Stateful Firewalls
    These firewalls don't look at each packet individually, but they consider active 
        connections and where each packet fits into them.
    For instance, when we open a connection to a streaming service, our firewall notices 
    that we have established a session with a remote host that sends thousands of similar 
        packets to the same IP and port and uses the same protocol.
    The firewall does not need to look at every packet going down the stream. 
        It trusts that the packets in this stream are allowed.

    Example. This firewall is protecting the client from traffic inbound from the internet. Its rules are:
        1.All inbound traffic is dropped.
        2.All outbound traffic is allowed.
        3.Traffic that is part of an established connection is allowed.

        Inbound Traffic
            In this first scenario, unsolicited traffic sent from outside the network is immediately dropped because of rule number 1.
        Outbound Traffic
            In scenario 2, the client sends traffic out to the internet. This traffic is allowed by the second rule. 
        Session Traffic
            In the last scenario, our client laptop reaches out to a server on the Internet and establishes a connection.
            The server responds. Because the client reached out first, the traffic is allowed through the firewall. 
                Subsequent traffic coming back in that same session is also allowed. 
        DMZ
            Let's say your organization runs a webserver that must be available to the public. 
            Any public facing server will be open to attacks from anywhere. 
            If a breach occurs on the webserver, then every machine on its network is vulnerable. 
            How do we protect our other assets? This is where a DMZ comes in. 
            A DMZ (Demilitarized Zone) is a feature of most firewalls that allows an organization 
            to send incoming network traffic into a tightly controlled subnet that is completely 
            separate from the rest of the network. This protects the other machines in your organization 
            if a breach happens inside the DMZ.
