Shells
    When performing a penetration test or red team engagement, 
        there will be a point where you will need to compromise 
        some system to establish a foothold on the target network. 

    The MITRE ATT&CK Framework outlines how to compromise a system under the Initial Access section

    Contrary to widespread belief, compromising a system is entirely situational, 
        and no universal “exploit” works on all OSs or applications.

    Exploits come in several different types. 
        Some exploits reveal sensitive information, e.g., file inclusion, 
        while others could shut down a system or make it inoperable, e.g., a DDoS attack.

    One of the more common types of exploits results in what is known as a “shell.”
    A shell is effectively a command line interface to the exploited system.
    This is one of the most dangerous exploits, as a shell allows you to run arbitrary commands on a system.

    There are generally two kinds of shells:
    
        Bind Shell: 
            A bind shell is associated with a specific port of the exploited system. 
            For example, an attacker would run an exploit and then connect to a port on the exploited system, 
                resulting in a shell. In this scenario, the attacker connects to the exploited system.
        
        Reverse Shell: 
            A reverse shell is established when the exploited system connects to the attacker. 
            An attacker would run an exploit that would cause the exploited system to reach out 
                to an attacker-controlled server, which results in a shell. 
            In this scenario, the exploited system connects back to the attacker.

Refer to 
    https://pentestmonkey.net/cheat-sheet/shells/reverse-shell-cheat-sheetLinks 
    or 
    https://highon.coffee/blog/reverse-shell-cheat-sheet/Links
to establish reverse shells for Bash and Python.


Social Engineering

    Social engineering is a collection of manipulation techniques that exploit
        human error to gain private information, access, or valuables.
    Also known as the art of “hacking people,” social engineering attacks 
        typically involve preying on human emotion.
    

    Types of social engineering attacks:

        Phishing:
            Typically, an email is sent to a user to get them to click a link or reveal sensitive information.
        
        Smishing
            SMS phishing is similar to phishing, but in a SMS text message form.

        Vishing:
            Voice phishing involves having a live person attempt to gain sensitive 
                information from a target. It can also be done in voice mail form. 

        Tailgating:
            This is the act of following someone into a sensitive area to utilize 
                the level of access they have to the area.
        

        Combining these attacks with the perception of urgency can make them very effective against employees. 
        For example, sending a phishing email with the implication of a deadline, 
        e.g. “your password is about to expire”, 
        “I need this sensitive information because the deadline for my project is coming soon”, etc., 
        can influence people to send information without actually verifying whether the email is legitimate.

        Protection
            Here are some things to ask yourself when trying to identify social engineering attacks:
                Did this message come from a legitimate sender?
                Does this website I am on have odd details?
                Is this message too good to be true?
                Are the attachments or links in this message suspicious?
                Is the language in this message inconsistent or use bad grammar?
                Is the person following me into this building an actual company employee?