Privilege Escalation
    After exploiting a vulnerable service running on a Windows server and getting a reverse shell, 
        you gain situational awareness of what is available. You run a netstat command and notice 
        an outbound connection to another Windows system on port 445. This seems promising! However, 
        after running a “whoami” command, you realize you are not the “Administrator” user you are used to being. 
        Instead, you are a regular unprivileged user that cannot run administrator-level commands. This means that 
        you cannot run tools like Mimikatz to steal credentials. Instead, you can laterally move to another Windows 
        system on the network. You have been tasked with figuring out a way to gain administrator privileges on the 
        Windows system so you can dump credentials and laterally move to the other Windows system.

    Privilege escalation is gaining elevated access to resources on a system. This means gaining root or administrator 
    privileges on the compromised system. Privilege escalation is commonly known as “getting root” on the system. 
    As the root or administrator user, you can extract more useful information than a standard, unprivileged user. 
    Therefore, it is in the penetration tester, or red teamer’s, best interest to escalate their privileges to gain 
    better access to the system.

        As a red teamer or pen-tester, your goal is to try to gain access to administrative accounts. 
            Here are some common account names that tend to have elevated privileges associated with them:

            root - found on Linux/Mac systems
            Administrator - found on Windows systems
            SYSTEM - found on Windows systems
            NT Authority - found on Windows systems
        
        You can also go for users on systems that are in administrative groups. Here are some common names of groups 
            that have administrative privileges associated with them:

                root - found on Linux/Mac systems
                wheel - found on Linux/Mac systems
                Administrators - found on Windows systems

        When establishing a system’s command and control, it is unlikely that you will start as an administrative user. 
            Instead, you will begin as a user with limited privileges. Then, you will have to escalate 
            your privileges to an administrative level.

    Escalation
        The techniques for privilege escalation tend to be one of the following:

        Gain access to a user account with administrator privileges, i.e., password guessing, 
            password compromise, User Account Control bypasses, etc.
        Exploit a vulnerable program on the system that can give you administrator privileges,
            e.g., SUID bit program, DLL hijacking, etc.
        Exploit an OS vulnerability that leads to administrator privileges, 
            e.g., DirtyCOW, Polkit Privilege Escalation, DirtyPipe, etc. Please note that these exploits 
            sometimes crash the system on which they are executed.
        
        Several techniques can be used to escalate your privileges, which the MITRE ATT&CK Framework has 
            documented at https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0004/Links to an external site.. 
            Luckily, there are open-source scripts and Metasploit modules that can check systems 
            for privilege escalation vulnerabilities in an automated fashion.

        A popular Python script used to check for privilege escalation is called the Linux Privilege Escalation Checker. 
            Once on a system, it can be executed to check for potential privilege escalation opportunities. 
            A Metasploit module named post/multi/recon/local_exploit_suggester can also be used for this for Windows systems.

Lateral Movement
    Lateral movement is the concept of an attacker extending their access within a network by moving 
        from one compromised system to another. This is also known as “pivot.” 
        Pivoting allows attackers to move deeper into a network, furthering their control and increasing 
        their chances of compromising sensitive information.
    
        Lateral movement is usually performed by one of the following means:

            Steal keys or credentials and use them to access another system, which is the most common method.
            Exploit a vulnerable external service that allows for the compromise of the system running the vulnerable service.
            
        How to laterally move between Linux systems differs from how to move between Windows systems laterally.

    Linux Lateral Movement
        Linux lateral movement is usually performed in one of two ways:

        Compromise a user’s password and use it on another system on the network, i.e., password guessing, brute force attacks, etc.
        Compromise an SSH key.

    Windows Lateral Movement
        Lateral movement within Windows environments is performed using tools specifically for this purpose. The two main tools are PSExec and WMI.


    Passing the Hash
        Passing the hash is not a “lateral movement tool” in the sense of a program like PSExec or wmic.exe, 
            but it is instrumental in lateral movement. Passing the hash takes advantage of the flaw in NTLM authentication, 
            allowing you to become a user using the user’s password hash without ever knowing the actual password. 
            This means you have access to all the resources they have access to, i.e., file shares, systems, etc. 
            A user’s password hash can be directly used in place of a password in Metasploit modules, 
            specifically within the SMBPass option.


