Offensive Security
    Offensive security is a proactive and adversarial approach to protecting computer systems, networks, individuals, 
        and their data from attacks.
    It is a method of testing where testers target systems and applications to determine whether vulnerabilities can 
        be exploited to compromise the system, its data, or its environmental resources.
    Testers are given information about the targets to test in the form of a rules of engagement document.
    This document outlines the systems or applications that will be tested, how they will be tested, 
        and what is allowed and not allowed during the testing, often called the Scope of Work.
    The most important thing to remember is that offensive security assessments require PERMISSION, 
        usually in the form of a contract or established rules, as in the case of bug bounty programs, to perform.
    
    There are two ways to perform offensive security assessments: 
        penetration testing and red teaming. 
        They both tend to follow the following phases: 
        Reconnaissance (Profiling) -> Scanning (Enumeration) -> Vulnerability Analysis -> Exploitation (Attack) -> Reporting.

    Pen Testing
        Short testing windows (days to weeks)
        Identify exploitable vulnerabilities to remediate security risks.
        Use different tools and techniques depending on the scope of the test.
        Identify exploitable security vulnerabilities, recommend remediation advice, and technical recommendations.
        This is usually cheaper because the testing is agreed upon based on the client’s objective and budget.

    Red Teaming
        Long testing windows (weeks to months)
        Access specific systems or data by exploiting vulnerabilities and behaviors to test for security awareness and culture.
        Use a combination of real-world tactics, tools, and procedures.
        Provide insight into the overall security posture of the target organization.
        This is usually more expensive because there are more people, tools, and techniques involved.

The MITRE ATT&CK framework
    is a compilation of tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) that attackers use throughout their offensive engagements. 
    The framework can be used for various purposes, including testing defenses against certain kinds of attacks, 
        identifying the types of threat agents that cause harm to an application or computer system 
        (also known as threat modeling), and more. 
        For example, what attacks have you seen in the news lately? 
        Under what categories do these attacks fall in the MITRE ATT&CK framework?