Introduction to AWS

    AWS offers a massive range of services for every business, starting with basic elements, like:
        compute, storage, and network security tools, through complex solutions like blockchain, 
        machine learning, or artificial intelligence, and robot development platforms, 
        all the way through very specialized tool sets, like video production management systems, 
        and orbital satellites you can rent by the minute.

    Almost all modern computing centers around a basic client-server model.
    It can be more complicated than that, so let's take a look at a coffee shop example.

    This coffee shop is going to give us some real world metaphors to help you understand 
        why AWS can change the way your IT operates.

    The server, the barista. And the client, the customer.
    I make a request. In this case, it is for coffee.
    In the computing world, the request could be anything.
    Basically a customer makes a request, and with permissions, the server responds to that request. 
    The response in this case is a caffeinated beverage.

    In AWS the server part, is called an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, or EC2. 
    An EC2 instance is a virtual server.
    From an architectural point of view, the transaction of the coffee shop is simple to explain:
    The user, made a request to the server. The server validated that the request was legitimate,
    then it return a response, in this case, a coffee

    Now in the real world, applications can get more complicated than just a single transaction with a single server.

    The key concept to AWS, and that is, you only pay for what you use.
    This principle makes sense when you run a coffee shop. Employees are only paid when they're in the store working.
    If Employees are off the clock, well then they don't get paid.
    The store owner simply decides how many baristas are needed and then just pays for the hours they work.
    For example, the coffee shop is about to release a new drink,
    In anticipation of this launch, you could always staff your shop with a dozen baristas all day long,
    just in case you suddenly get an unexpected rush at some point in the day.
    Only, let's be honest.
    For most of your day, you don't have near enough customers to justify paying for all those employees.

    This is exactly what happens in an on-premises data center. 
    At AWS, you don't pre-pay for anything. And you don't have to worry about capacity constraints.

    When you need instances, or baristas, you just click a button, and you have them. 
    And when you don't need them, another click, and they go away, and you stop paying for them.

    Pay for what you need, becomes the first key value of many for running your business on AWS.

    What is a client-server model?
        Almost all of modern computing uses a basic client-server model.
        In computing, a client can be a web browser or desktop application 
        that a person interacts with to make requests to computer servers.
        A server can be services such as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), 
        a type of virtual server.

        For example:
        suppose that a client makes a request for a news article, or a funny video.
        The server evaluates the details of this request and fulfills it by returning the information to the client.
        
Cloud computing
    Deployment models for cloud computing
    When selecting a cloud strategy, a company must consider factors such as required cloud application components,
    preferred resource management tools, and any legacy IT infrastructure requirements.

    The three cloud computing deployment models are cloud-based, on-premises, and hybrid. 

    Cloud-Base Deployment
        Run all parts of the application in the cloud.
        Migrate existing applications to the cloud.
        Design and build new applications in the cloud.

        In a cloud-based deployment model: 
        You can migrate existing applications to the cloud, or you can design and build new applications in the cloud.
        You can build those applications on low-level infrastructure that requires your IT staff to manage them.
        You can build them using higher-level services that reduce the management, architecting, 
            and scaling requirements of the core infrastructure.

        For example, 
        a company might create an application consisting of virtual servers, databases, 
        and networking components that are fully based in the cloud.

    On-Premise Deployment
        Deploy resources by using virtualization and resource management tools.
        Increase resource utilization by using application management and virtualization technologies.

        On-premises deployment is also known as a private cloud deployment.
        In this model, resources are deployed on premises by using virtualization and resource management tools.

        For example
        You might have applications that run on technology that is fully kept in your on-premises data center.
        Though this model is much like legacy IT infrastructure,
        its incorporation of application management and virtualization technologies helps to increase resource utilization.

    Hybrid Deployment
        Connect cloud-based resources to on-premises infrastructure.
        Integrate cloud-based resources with legacy IT applications.

        In a hybrid deployment:
            Cloud-based resources are connected to on-premises infrastructure.
            You might want to use this approach in a number of situations.

            For example:
            you have legacy applications that are better maintained on premises,
            or government regulations require your business to keep certain records on premises.

            For example:
                Suppose that a company wants to use cloud services that can automate batch data processing and analytics.
                However, 
                the company has several legacy applications that are more suitable on premises and will not be migrated to the cloud.
                With a hybrid deployment,
                the company would be able to keep the legacy applications on premises while benefiting 
                from the data and analytics services that run in the cloud.

    Benefits of cloud computing
        Trade upfront expense for variable expense 
            Upfront expense refers to data centers, physical servers, and other resources that you would need to invest in before using them.
            Variable expense means you only pay for computing resources you consume,
            instead of investing heavily in data centers and servers before you know how you’re going to use them.

            By taking a cloud computing approach that offers the benefit of variable expense, 
            companies can implement innovative solutions while saving on costs.

        Stop spending money to run and maintain data centers
            Computing in data centers often requires you to spend more money and time managing infrastructure and servers. 
            A benefit of cloud computing is the ability to focus less on these tasks and more on your applications and customers.

        Stop guessing capacity
            With cloud computing, you don’t have to predict how much infrastructure capacity you will need before deploying an application. 

            For example,
            you can launch Amazon EC2 instances when needed,
            and pay only for the compute time you use.
            Instead of paying for unused resources or having to deal with limited capacity,
            you can access only the capacity that you need.
            You can also scale in or scale out in response to demand.

        Benefit from massive economies of scale
            By using cloud computing, you can achieve a lower variable cost than you can get on your own.

            Because usage from hundreds of thousands of customers can aggregate in the cloud, providers, such as AWS,
            can achieve higher economies of scale. The economy of scale translates into lower pay-as-you-go prices. 

        Increase speed and agility
            The flexibility of cloud computing makes it easier for you to develop and deploy applications.
            This flexibility provides you with more time to experiment and innovate.
            When computing in data centers, it may take weeks to obtain new resources that you need.
            By comparison, cloud computing enables you to access new resources within minutes.

        Go global in minutes
            The global footprint of the AWS Cloud enables you to deploy applications to customers around the world quickly, 
            while providing them with low latency.
            This means that even if you are located in a different part of the world than your customers, 
            customers are able to access your applications with minimal delays.
 