Compute in the cloud
    In this module, you will learn about Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance types, 
    pricing, and related services.

    In this module, you will learn how to:
        • Describe Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) benefits 
        • Identify the Amazon EC2 instance types 
        • Differentiate among Amazon EC2 billing options 
        • Summarize Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling benefits 
        • Summarize Elastic Load Balancing benefits 
        • Provide examples of Elastic Load Balancing uses 
        • Describe differences between Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) 
            and Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) 
        • Summarize additional AWS compute options


    To understand how computing works in the cloud, 
    think about the client-server model introduced in the previous module. 
    Companies use the client-server model to deliver products, resources, and data to their end users.
    This process is powered by computer servers that host applications 
    and provide the compute power that businesses need.
    In AWS, you can use the Amazon EC2 service to run virtual servers. 

    Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides secure, 
    resizable compute capacity in the cloud as Amazon EC2 instances. 

    Imagine you are responsible for the architecture of your company's resources and need to support new websites.
    With traditional on-premises resources, you have to do the following:
        Spend money upfront to purchase hardware.
        Wait for the servers to be delivered to you.
        Install the servers in your physical data center.
        Make all the necessary configurations.

    By comparison, with an Amazon EC2 instance you can use a virtual server to run applications in the AWS Cloud.
        ou can provision and launch an Amazon EC2 instance within minutes.
        You can stop using it when you have finished running a workload.
        You pay only for the compute time you use when an instance is running, not when it is stopped or terminated.
        You can save costs by paying only for server capacity that you need or want.

    How Amazon EC2 works
        launch, connect, use

        Amazon EC2 instance types:
            Amazon EC2 instance types are optimized for different tasks. 
            When selecting an instance type, consider the specific needs of your workloads and applications. 
            This might include requirements for compute, memory, or storage capabilities.

            General purpose instance 
                provide a balance of compute, memory, and networking resources. You can use them for a variety of workloads, such as:
                    application servers
                    gaming servers
                    backend servers for enterprise applications
                    small and medium databases

                    Example:
                        Suppose that you have an application in which the resource needs for compute, memory, 
                        and networking are roughly equivalent. 
                        You might consider running it on a general purpose instance because the application 
                        does not require optimization in any single resource area.

            Compute optimized instances
                are ideal for compute-bound applications that benefit from high-performance processors.
                Like general purpose instances, you can use compute optimized instances 
                for workloads such as web, application, and gaming servers.

                The difference is compute optimized applications are ideal for high-performance web servers, 
                compute-intensive applications servers, and dedicated gaming servers.
                You can also use compute optimized instances for batch processing workloads 
                that require processing many transactions in a single group.

            Memory optimized instances 
                are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large datasets in memory. 
                In computing, memory is a temporary storage area.
                It holds all the data and instructions that a central processing unit (CPU) needs to be able to complete actions.
                Before a computer program or application is able to run, it is loaded from storage into memory. 
                This preloading process gives the CPU direct access to the computer program.

                Example:
                    Suppose that you have a workload that requires large amounts of data to be preloaded before running an application.
                    This scenario might be a high-performance database or a workload that involves performing real-time processing 
                    of a large amount of unstructured data.
                    In these types of use cases, consider using a memory optimized instance.
                    Memory optimized instances enable you to run workloads with high memory needs and receive great performance.

            Accelerated computing instances 
                Use hardware accelerators, or coprocessors, to perform some functions more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs.
                Examples of these functions include floating-point number calculations, graphics processing, and data pattern matching.
                In computing, a hardware accelerator is a component that can expedite data processing.
                Accelerated computing instances are ideal for workloads such as graphics applications, game streaming, and application streaming.

            Storage optimized instances
                are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to large datasets on local storage.
                Examples of workloads suitable for storage optimized instances include distributed file systems,
                data warehousing applications, and high-frequency online transaction processing (OLTP) systems.

                In computing, the term input/output operations per second (IOPS) is a metric that measures the performance of a storage device.
                It indicates how many different input or output operations a device can perform in one second
                Storage optimized instances are designed to deliver tens of thousands of low-latency, random IOPS to applications. 

                You can think of input operations as data put into a system, such as records entered into a database
                An output operation is data generated by a server. 
                An example of output might be the analytics performed on the records in a database
                If you have an application that has a high IOPS requirement,
                a storage optimized instance can provide better performance over other instance types not optimized for this kind of use case.

    Amazon EC2 pricing
        you pay only for the compute time that you use.
        Amazon EC2 offers a variety of pricing options for different use cases. 
        For example, if your use case can withstand interruptions, you can save with Spot Instances.
        You can also save by committing early and locking in a minimum level of use with Reserved Instances.

        On-demand
            are ideal for short-term,
            irregular workloads that cannot be interrupted.
            No upfront costs or minimum contracts apply.
            The instances run continuously until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use

            Sample use cases for On-Demand Instances include developing and testing applications 
            and running applications that have unpredictable usage patterns.
            On-Demand Instances are not recommended for workloads that last a year 
            or longer because these workloads can experience greater cost savings using Reserved Instances.

        Amazon EC2 Savings plans
            AWS offers Savings Plans for several compute services, including Amazon EC2.
            Amazon EC2 Savings Plans enable you to reduce your compute costs by committing 
            to a consistent amount of compute usage for a 1-year or 3-year term.
            This term commitment results in savings of up to 72% over On-Demand costs.
            Any usage up to the commitment is charged at the discounted Savings Plan rate
            (for example, $10 an hour).
            Any usage beyond the commitment is charged at regular On-Demand rates.

        Reserved Instancess 
            are a billing discount applied to the use of On-Demand Instances in your account. 
            You can purchase Standard Reserved and Convertible Reserved Instances for a 1-year or 3-year term, 
            and Scheduled Reserved Instances for a 1-year term.

            At the end of a Reserved Instance term, you can continue using the Amazon EC2 instance without interruption.
            However, you are charged On-Demand rates until you do one of the following:
                Terminate the instance.
                Purchase a new Reserved Instance that matches the instance attributes (instance type, Region, tenancy, and platform).

        Spot Instances
            are ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions.
            Spot Instances use unused Amazon EC2 computing capacity and offer you cost savings at up to 90% off of On-Demand prices. 

            Suppose that you have a background processing job that can start and stop as needed 
            (such as the data processing job for a customer survey).
            You want to start and stop the processing job without affecting the overall operations of your business.
            If you make a Spot request and Amazon EC2 capacity is available, your Spot Instance launches.
            However, if you make a Spot request and Amazon EC2 capacity is unavailable, 
            the request is not successful until capacity becomes available.
            The unavailable capacity might delay the launch of your background processing job.

            After you have launched a Spot Instance, 
            if capacity is no longer available or demand for Spot Instances increases, your instance may be interrupted. 
            This might not pose any issues for your background processing job.
            If you are developing and testing applications, you would most likely want to avoid unexpected interruptions.
            Therefore, choose a different EC2 instance type that is ideal for those tasks.

        Dedicated Hosts
            are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instance capacity that is fully dedicated to your use. 
            You can use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses to help maintain license compliance.
            You can purchase On-Demand Dedicated Hosts and Dedicated Hosts Reservations.
            Of all the Amazon EC2 options that were covered, Dedicated Hosts are the most expensive.

    Scaling Amazon EC2

        Scalability
            involves beginning with only the resources you need and designing your architecture to automatically 
            respond to changing demand by scaling out or in.
            As a result, you pay for only the resources you use.
            You don’t have to worry about a lack of computing capacity to meet your customers’ needs.

            If you wanted the scaling process to happen automatically, 
            which AWS service would you use? 
            The AWS service that provides this functionality for Amazon EC2 instances is Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.

            Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
                If you’ve tried to access a website that wouldn’t load and frequently timed out,
                the website might have received more requests than it was able to handle.
                This situation is similar to waiting in a long line at a coffee shop.

                Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling enables you to automatically add or remove Amazon EC2 instances 
                in response to changing application demand.
                By automatically scaling your instances in and out as needed, 
                you are able to maintain a greater sense of application availability.

                Within Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling, you can use two approaches: dynamic scaling and predictive scaling.
                    Dynamic scaling responds to changing demand. 
                    Predictive scaling automatically schedules the right number of Amazon EC2 instances based on predicted demand.

                    *To scale faster, you can use dynamic scaling and predictive scaling together.
                
                Example: Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
                    In the cloud, 
                    computing power is a programmatic resource, so you can take a more flexible approach to the issue of scaling.
                    By adding Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to an application, 
                    you can add new instances to the application when necessary and terminate them when no longer needed.

                    Suppose that you are preparing to launch an application on Amazon EC2 instances.
                    When configuring the size of your Auto Scaling group, you might set the minimum number of Amazon EC2 instances at one. 
                    This means that at all times, there must be at least one Amazon EC2 instance running.

                    When you create an Auto Scaling group, you can set the minimum number of Amazon EC2 instances.
                    The minimum capacity is the number of Amazon EC2 instances that launch immediately after you have created the Auto Scaling group. 

                    You can set the desired capacity at two Amazon EC2 instances, 
                    even though your application needs a minimum of a single Amazon EC2 instance to run.

                    *If you do not specify the desired number of Amazon EC2 instances in an Auto Scaling group, 
                    the desired capacity defaults to your minimum capacity.

                    The third configuration that you can set in an Auto Scaling group is the maximum capacity.
                    For example, 
                    you might configure the Auto Scaling group to scale out in response to increased demand, 
                    but only to a maximum of four Amazon EC2 instances.

                    Because Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling uses Amazon EC2 instances, 
                    you pay for only the instances you use, when you use them. 
                    You now have a cost-effective architecture that provides the best customer experience while reducing expenses.

    Directing traffic with Elastic Load Balancing
                        



