According to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework, 
    the detect function enables the timely discovery of cybersecurity events. 
First, it is crucial that you protect assets. 
Then, you then need a way to be notified if anyone or anything can get past the protection mechanisms you enforced.

To detect an incident in the environment, you can use various tools. 
    Examples include a vulnerability scanner and an endpoint detection tool.

Snort
    Wireshark Review
        Wireshark is a network protocol analyzer for traffic analysis. 
        Wireshark also has many uses during an incident response investigation. 
            For one, it provides lots of statistical data about packet captures. 
            And during an incident response investigation, such data can identify whether any 
                unusual connection patterns exist across the network. 
            For example, if evidence exists of one system connecting to many others in the network, 
                that might indicate network scanning or lateral movement

    Intrusion Detection Systems
        An intrusion detection system (IDS) is a device that monitors a network for malicious activity. 
        If it finds any intrusion activity, it reports that to the IDS administrator. 
        IDSs come in two types: host-based and network-based. 
            A host-based IDS monitors network traffic and devices that are installed locally on the endpoints of the host. 
            After the host-based IDS gets installed on a device, it monitors the traffic on that device. 
            By contrast, a network-based IDS monitors only network traffic. 
            That is, a network-based IDS does not monitor a particular system. 
            Instead, it scans data packets across the network. 

    Snort
        Snort is a well-known, open-source network intrusion prevention and detection system (IDPS). 
        It performs traffic analysis and network packet logging. 
        Snort is based on library packet capture (libpcap), 
            which searches for and analyzes packet logging and real-time traffic. 
        Snort has several modes for use as an IDPS. As an IPS, Snort monitors network traffic 
            and compares it against a rule set. The main component of Snort applies rules to the traffic 
            and creates an alert when an activity contradicts the rule set.

Respond
    Responding to an incident includes two parts. 
        The first consists of quickly identifying what is happening. 
        The second consists of taking action to minimize any adverse effects and to reduce and contain the damage. 

        Incident Response
            An incident response ensures an organized and systematic way to address the results of a cyber incident. 
            And, it aims to limit the adverse impacts as much as possible. 
            Typically, the incident response team of an organization is in charge of coordinating these activities. 
            But, many teams in the organization take part in the overall process. 

            An incident response plan is a document outlining that process and the procedures to take if an incident occurs. 
            Having an incident response plan before an incident occurs is crucial for preparedness. 
            And if that plan has been practiced and widely accepted throughout the organization, 
                the incident response process will prove much more manageable.

            The incident response process includes the preparation, detection, and response processes. 
                To respond, it is essential to analyze what happened, establish the root cause, 
                and continue to improve your security environment.

            After an incident has been resolved, conducting a post-mortem with any involved individuals is also essential. 
            During the post-mortem, it is important to discuss what happened, why it happened, and the impact on the organization. 
            It is also necessary to discuss what can and should be done in the future to ensure that it does not happen again. 
            By having this conversation, the appropriate changes can be made to make the organization both more robust and more resilient.

        SIEM Tools
            During an incident response, people commonly use security information and event management (SIEM) tools. 
            With such tools, organizations can aggregate data from several sources in one place. 
            The tools thus provide a central location for observation and analysis. 
            And during this analysis, people might discover different threats—allowing organizations to respond proactively. 

            As discussed in earlier lessons, Splunk is an industry-leading SIEM tool. 
            Splunk can help you search through information to generate alerts, reports, and visualizations. 
            But, people throughout the industry also use other popular SIEM tools, such as Sentinel, Qradar, and McAfee.

            One of the most attractive features of a SIEM tool is automation. 
            Such a tool can be programmed to automatically respond to alerts and incidents by taking specific actions. 
            This can reduce resource utilization. Specifically, the tool can handle the more routine or straightforward 
                alerts and incidents—without the involvement of people. 
            Incident response employees can thus focus on incoming alerts and utilize more resources for problems that are more significant.


        EDR Tools

            Endpoint detection and response (EDR) helps security teams eliminate anomalous and suspicious activity on endpoints. 
            EDR tools have various features and functions, including investigations and threat hunting. 

            Whereas the main purpose of a SIEM tool is to aggregate information and event logs, 
                the main purpose of an EDR tool is to provide continuous detection and response at the endpoint level. 
            EDR tools collect their data only from endpoints. By contrast, SIEM tools can collect information from many other sources. 
            So, a SIEM tool and an EDR tool are complementary. 
            By having both, an organization can better understand its environment and respond to threats. 
            Popular EDR tools include Carbon Black, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, and Falcon.