Digital Forensics
    It is essential for cybersecurity professionals to go through the entire forensic process in the event of an incident,
        including identifying, preserving, analyzing, and presenting digital evidence. 
        Digital Forensics (DF) has changed significantly over the years, and the industry is constantly evolving 
        to keep up with new and emerging threats. In today's age of zero days and ransomware attacks, 
        being up to date on the latest cyber news is critical. 

    Computers and systems have also continued to evolve, and more Internet of Things (IoT) devices are 
        now connected to the Internet than ever before. As a result, various kinds of crime can occur online. 
        Because of this, the need to gather new forms of evidence has turned digital forensics 
        into a valuable tool law enforcement uses to prosecute crimes. Four critical areas of analysis exist:

            Storage media
            Hardware and operating systems
            Networks
            Applications
 

    Principles
        In the identification phase, you must identify the investigation's purpose and what resources 
            and tools you will need to complete the investigation. 

        In the preservation phase, the goal is to 'preserve' as much evidence as possible in its original form. 
            Additionally, the data should be secured and isolated so it cannot be tampered with later. 

        The analysis phase is where the bulk of the investigation happens. 
            In this phase, you will process the data into information and interpret the results 
            of this analysis to inform later decisions and responses. 

        Next, the documentation phase is arguably one of the most important. 
            During this phase, you need to document everything that occurred during the investigation, 
            including photographs of the evidence and chain of custody forms to keep track of who worked with the data. 

    Anti-Forensics Techniques
        When conducting your ransomware investigation, you may encounter many signs of anti-forensics in the incident. 
            Attackers often use anti-forensics techniques to remove evidence that could link the cause of the incident 
            back to them. On a crime scene, the equivalent would be a criminal scrubbing their fingerprints from the 
            scene to stay anonymous. As you conduct forensics on StackFull Software's ransomware incident, 
            it is imperative to search for signs of anti-forensics in the environment to ensure that your 
            investigation is comprehensive. Below are some popular anti-forensics techniques. 

            File encryption is a technique in which data is translated into a secret code. 
                Only authorized people can access the encrypted file, which is a great way to secure the data. 
                Because of this, many attackers use forms of file encryption, like forensics, to hinder the 
                forensic investigation process. Disk wiping is another technique in which the attacker permanently 
                deletes or destroys the evidence on the disk. Finally, steganography is the process of hiding 
                messages and files within another file. This is another excellent anti-forensics technique 
                 attackers can hide information 'in plain sight' or in a way that makes it hard for forensics tools to uncover.

    Digital Forensics Tools
        While conducting your forensics investigation, you will encounter several digital forensics tools 
            that usually fall into two categories: commercial or free and open source (FOSS). 
            The cost of ownership is usually the most significant factor when deciding which one to use. 
            Open-source software is typically free or at least lower cost. On the other hand, 
            commercial software requires a license to be purchased before it can be used, which is generally quite expensive. 
            Although you can save a lot of money using an open-source tool, commercial tools may be better if 
            tool integration is essential. For example, if your company already uses many Microsoft products, 
            it would be much easier to integrate another commercial Microsoft tool into the environment than to use a third-party tool. 

        Volatility
            Volatility is one of the most popular forensics tools for memory analysis. 
                Pulling evidence from compromised devices as quickly as possible is incredibly important. 
                This evidence may be a hard disk image or logs on a system. Unfortunately, this process can be tedious, 
                depending on the number of logs to parse or the amount of data on the hard disk.
            Capturing Random Access Memory (RAM) is an excellent alternative because the memory here is much smaller 
                than on a hard disk and, therefore, easier to capture. Furthermore, once the data has been captured 
                with Volatility, you can search through the processes running on the device at the time of the compromise 
                to help determine what happened.

        Sleuth Kit + Autopsy
            Autopsy is the open-source GUI that goes along with The Sleuth Kit and is software 
                that allows you to analyze hard drives and phones. 
        
        ExifTool
            Did you know that any photos, videos, or other media you create have hidden metadata embedded? 
                Metadata can be defined as data about other data. This data includes the time/location 
                that the media was created and many other pieces of information that ExifTool allows us to uncover. 
                ExifTool is another open-source and command-line software that enables you to 
                discover hidden information in media.

Forensic Imaging
    Forensic investigations have been around for years, most notably crime scene investigations. 
        Computer/Digital Forensics investigations are remarkably similar to these. 
        In both cases, a subject will be investigated, and an analysis/investigation period will be conducted. 
        It is essential to follow protocol to ensure no data is tampered with. 

    Acquisition and Collection of Forensic Evidence
        Several distinct types of data can be collected during a forensic investigation. 
            Active data includes the data you can see and all programs, data, and files the operating system uses. 
            This is also the easiest type of data to gather. Archive and backup data is data preserved for long-term 
            storage on a system. This could include a hard drive, optical storage, or other forms of backup media. 
            Finally, hidden data types are usually the most challenging data to gather. 
            This includes data that may be deleted or overwritten. This can consist of metadata (data about data) and residual data.

        Data can also be categorized into two types, volatile and persistent. Volatile data can be thought of as 
            'temporary' data. This data is lost if the device shuts down or loses power. 
            RAM (random access memory) is the most common volatile data type. 
            Digital Forensics investigation needs to be quick and efficient to collect RAM and other volatile 
            data before it is lost. Persistent data is the opposite of volatile data. It is data that 'persists' 
            or remains on the system even if the system loses power. This data remains the same and is not 
            accessed very frequently. Persistent data is stored on a drive, making it much easier 
            to find and analyze than volatile data.

    Preserving Evidence
        It is imperative to ensure the integrity of the data with which you are working. 
            Documenting everything in an investigation is necessary to provide a written record of the process 
            in case it must be referenced later. Details should include where the incident happened, 
            the connected network devices that may be impacted, a list of users with access to the system, and more. 
            This is imperative, especially if the investigation goes to a court of law. 

        A chain of custody form is a permanent record and paper trail of everyone who has 
            handled or come into contact with a piece of forensic evidence. 
            It documents the people who come into contact with evidence, the date and time it occurred, 
            and the individual's intent/purpose in handling the data. This is another crucial step to 
            preserve the integrity of evidence. Without a chain of custody form, evidence 
            may be ruled inadmissible in a court of law. 

        You should never work on the original copy of forensic evidence. 
            Instead, the best practice is to create an 'image' or reproduction of the data for your analysis. 
            This is important because if anything goes wrong during the analysis or the copy is altered, 
             can still reference the original work and create another copy for analysis.

Malware Analysis
    Malware, short for 'malicious software', 
        is a type of software intentionally designed to disrupt, damage, or gain unauthorized access to a computer. 
        Attackers usually develop malware to steal and damage data.
        Some common examples of malware include adware, viruses, worms, trojans, bots, and ransomware. 
        Being familiar with malware and its diverse types is vital in Digital Forensics. 
        Forensic investigators are searching for potential malware and must figure out how it got on a system. 
        more familiar a person is with malware, the better an investigator they will be. 
