Splunk
    Splunk is a big data tool and software platform used to search, analyze, 
        and visualize the machine-generated data gathered from the websites, applications, sensors, devices, etc., 
        which make up IT infrastructures. Additionally, Splunk uses real-time data and formats it into easy-to-read logs, 
        allowing for more successful and efficient cyber security monitoring.
    
    When Splunk indexes your data, it labels each event with several fields. 
        These fields become a part of the index's event data and are returned as part of the search results. 
        Splunk also adds some data to several default fields that serve particular purposes within Splunk's internal processing.
    
    Searching with SPL: Splunk uses a coding language called SPL, or Splunk Processing Language. 
        SPL is the search processing language designed by Splunk for use with Splunk software. 
        SPL encompasses all the search commands and their functions, arguments, and clauses. 
        Its syntax was originally based on the UNIX pipeline and SQL. 
        The scope of SPL includes data searching, filtering, modification, manipulation, insertion, and deletion

Search Structures
    One of the amazing benefits of Splunk is that you can really get into the details of what you want to search. 
        This can make sorting events and creating timelines much easier without a lot of filler data. 
        Using the | (pipe character) and Boolean operators (such as AND, OR, and NOT) can also help with detailed searches.

        Splunk Boolean Searches
            Splunk Boolean searches can be simple or compound, meaning that you can have a single Boolean expression, 
                such as the following: Shutdown OR Closing. 
                You can also have a compound Boolean expression, such as the following: 
                (shutdown OR Closing) AND (date_mday=3 OR date_mday=4) 
                Splunk, like any programming language, evaluates Boolean expressions using a predetermined precedence. 
                This means that your Splunk search will be evaluated as follows: 

                    Evaluate the expressions within the parentheses.
                    Evaluate the OR clauses.
                    Evaluate the AND or NOT clauses.