Artificial Intelligence (AI)
A broad term that refers to human intelligence exhibited by machines. 
It is the science of making things smart.


Narrow AI
A type of artificial intelligence that can perform one (or a few) defined 
tasks as well or better than a human expert. Common use cases could be 
classifying text in user contact forms and automatically routing those messages 
to the respective sub-teams in a company, or accurately detecting 
tumors in medical images.


Machine Learning (ML)
Machine learning is a subfield of artificial intelligence. 
It is the implementation of the actual program that learns 
from prior experience to find patterns in a dataset. 
This paradigm contrasts traditional programming, where you hand-code 
rules to process data and arrive at answers.

Consider the use case where you want to automate spam detection. 
A traditional programming approach would be to formulate explicit 
rules for the program. In contrast, a machine learning program would 
learn by looking at millions of comments that have already been labeled 
spam or not spam. The system would then attempt to categorize new 
(and previously unseen) comments as spam or not spam based on what 
it has learned by finding what words are statistically significant.


Deep Learning
Deep Learning is a machine learning algorithm that involves 
Deep Neural Networks (DNN) code structures arranged in layers 
that mimic how scientists believe the human brain works by 
learning patterns of patterns as you go further down the layers. 


Relationship between AI, ML, and DL
Artificial intelligence, the process of enabling human intelligence 
in systems, has a subset called machine learning which is the actual 
implementation of a program that can learn from data. Deep learning 
is a class of algorithms that can drive a machine learning program.


Machine Learning Model
A machine learning model is essentially an algorithm that transforms 
numerical inputs into numerical outputs used in applications. 
For instance, a machine learning model that recognizes types of 
flowers may take in numerical representations of the flower’s color 
and the stem length as inputs and produce a score of confidence that 
classifies the flower as a particular type. You can then decide what 
to do with this output in your application.

You need to consider that all machine learning models are initially 
untrained and there are several ways to train them. Based on the 
training method, you can classify them into the following 
forms of machine learning:

Supervised learning {
    Machine learning models are trained in supervised learning using 
    labeled examples or data. The model is provided with the ground 
    truth for each example from which it will learn. 
    In other words, each example consists of the data and the label 
    that tells the model what the correct output for the data is. 
    Supervised learning aims to learn from the examples and generalizes 
    its learning to data it hasn’t seen before. A model performs well 
    only when you provide diverse and well-labeled data for training.
}
Unsupervised learning {
    In unsupervised learning, the example data provided to the model is unlabeled. 
    You may roughly know the number of classes you expect to discover from the data. 
    The model attempts to find related data and clusters them together. 
    Unsupervised learning is especially useful when dealing with datasets 
    that are difficult to label. An everyday use case for unsupervised 
    learning is recommendation engines commonly found in retail websites, 
    where the system clusters people with similar shopping habits to 
    recommend new products. 
}
Reinforcement learning {
    Reinforcement learning is a relatively new area of machine learning 
    where the model takes actions to achieve a goal while maximizing a 
    reward that is defined. This system relies on trial and error with 
    accurate “trials” providing rewards. The system undergoes many 
    iterations to find a combination of rules that achieves the best results. 
    The applications of reinforcement learning include gaming, robotics, 
    and scientific research. 
}


